+++
title = "Essay 2"
description = ""
date = "2020-08-19"
menu = "main"
+++

<div class="essay">

# Essay 2 - "Poems in Dialogue"

Due Friday, 10/22 at 22:00; revisions due by 11/5 at 22:00

### Prompt


As we have discussed in class, poems rarely exist in isolation. In fact, they often participate in long traditions where certain topics and forms coincide, leading to the production of recognizable genres. The sonnet is one such genre, in which ideas pertaining to love, death, and nature have been expressed and thought over by writers in the West since the 14th century. As the prototypical <i>lyric genre</i>, the sonnet also contains and even perpetuates certain ideas about what poetry is and what it should be. Your task in this essay is to choose a sonnet and discuss how it responds to the tradition in which it is embedded. Here are some ways in which you may accomplish this:

<ul style="margin-left: 2em">
<li> Discuss how a sonnet recapitulates a commonplace topic or theme. Does it contribute something new to your understanding of that theme, or does it represent a progression in previous poetic representations of that theme? Be sure to discuss two poems: one which represents the tradition, and another which forms the center of your analysis. You may cite and mention additional poems as reference points.
<li> Discuss two sonnets from the same sequence, or two sonnets by the same author. How do these poems relate to the author's individual poetic project? Do the poems uniformly represent a cohesive sense of self, or do they produce contradictions? Are you able to articulate this poet's individual contribution to the sonnet tradition by reading their poems?
<li> Write about a sonnet which seems particularly "lyrical" to you and one which seems less so; discuss why this is the case. Recall that lyric poetry may be defined in terms of it use of “ritual” and “fictional” elements, in terms of the "four parameters," and in terms of its ability to represent the inner world of a lyric speaker, among other things. Refer to the class readings—Culler, Greene, or the PEPP entry—to substantiate your notion of "lyric."
</ul>

### Specifications
<ol style="margin-left:3em">
 
<li> Capture the reader's attention and produce a sense of intrigue in the opening paragraph. Make it clear that the poem you are writing about is interesting or important and explain why you feel a need to analyze it using a particular method.

* If you're comparing poems across topics, that topic is your "method." You must provide the reader with a discussion of what that term means—e.g., what is a "love sonnet"?
* If you're comparing poems by the same author, you should identify a particular aspect of that author's poetics (e.g., Rilke's notion of solitude), this is your "method."
* If you're writing about sonnets in terrms of the notion of "lyric," you may cite what others have said about this term and what it means—but again, since there are many definitions, identify just one or two aspects of the concept to use as your "method."

<li> Your "method" will coincide with certain key terms. Be sure to show the reader where those terms come from; i.e., cite the text(s) where they have been previously defined. Then make it clear how you understand the term. This may involve telling the reader that you're using a word in a slightly different sense from what it originally meant, that you are only referencing one part of its definition, and/or that you're applying it in a new context (e.g., "while Roland Greene uses ritual/fiction to discuss sonnet sequences, I will be applying them to poems which were not published in a sequence.").

<li> Close the introduction with a question or claim that motivates the rest of your essay. This is your "thesis statement." A good thesis statement is not obviously true, and it may be downright provocative. It exists as the product of some kind of dialogue, consisting of a question or claim and a kind of answer:

* Q&A: *How do these poems relate to Rilke's notion of solitude? Let us consider how their use of personal, spatial, and temporal deixis furnish a response.*
* C&R: *While it may seem like this poem is more ritualistic than fictional, I argue/show/explore how its fictive elements are indeed central to the poem's expressive power.*

(Note that the "answer" should give a sense of *how* you will respond, but not a complete answer. You don't want to "spoil" the rest of the argument by being too detailed, but you also don't want to leave the reader in the dark on how you will address the question or claim at hand. Sometimes you can list out the main topics of your body paragraphs within the thesis statement, as in the Q&A example above.)

<li> Provide vivid evidence of your claims by quoting directly and concisely from the text. Include block quotes where appropriate, i.e. to provide important context, or where you plan on engaging in prolonged commentary on the quote in question. Make decisions on citation length by imagining your reader: where might they need more assistance in seeing the detailed observations or thought processes behind your claims?


<li> The last paragraph should recapitulate what you discovered or discussed in the essay and then return to the original thesis statement. Did the essay sufficiently resolve the "tension" in your thesis? In what ways were the theoretical terms helpful for reading, interpreting, or gaining a better appreciation for the poem(s) you are writing about? In what ways were they insufficient?

<hr style="border: .5px solid rgb(147,141,123); margin: 2em auto; width: 40%">

<li> Sequence the paragraphs in an intentional fashion. You might want to begin with an observation that seems easiest and move to the most difficult. You may also work through a poem in chronological order. Regardless of approach, make sure it is clear how each new paragraph adds to or complicates what you have developed in the previous paragraphs. "Moreover" signals the former and "however" the latter. "First/Second/Third" signals a clear separation in ideas, which can be helpful, although it can also reveal a lack of connections between ideas.


<li> Sentences should be sequenced in a way that is clearly motivated and which propels the reader's interest forward. In terms of grammar, this means that you should generally stick to the simplest structure possible: Subject-Verb-Object. Here are some other ways to begin sentences:

* Temporal deixis: *<b>Now</b> that we have defined ritual, ...*
* Prepositions: *<b>By</b> investigating how Poet uses Device, we can...*
* Imperatives: *<b>Notice</b> how Poet uses Device to orient the reader...*
* Interrogatives: *<b>How</b> does the poet's use of Device relate to...?*

<li> Try to use words which most accurately represent your ideas:

* Use active verbs in the simple present. Check to see if you are overusing any verbal form of "be" or "have," as they don't typically contribute much meaning to a sentence. 
* Use prepositions/postpositions judiciously. Too much of "of" or "as" can obscure the meaning of a sentence. If you find a sentence with too many prepositions and embedded clauses, separate them out and see if you can reformulate them back into the Subject-Verb-Object structure. Here's a <a href="https://english.edward.io">syntax highlighter</a>, use it! 
* Use concrete and vivid nouns and adjectives. They may refer very directly and literally to what you are writing about, or describe that thing by way of metaphor. If you find yourself repeating a certain noun or adjective throughout your essay, you should provide a definition for the term, no matter how common it may be.

<li> Pay attention to sentence rhythm. Interweave short and long, simple and complex; use contrasts to your advantage. Avoid unwarranted, consecutive repetition of words and phrases (e.g. "this..." or "indeed"). A quick proofreading trick is to simply highlight every sentence with the cursor as you comb through your essay.


<hr style="border: .5px solid rgb(147,141,123); margin: 2em auto; width: 40%">

<li> Include a title that neatly sums up your paper. This normally takes the form of <i>Noun-Phrase + Prepositional-Phrase</i>, e.g. "Ritual and Fiction in Rilke's <i>New Poems</i>." It can also be bipartite, separated by a colon into two lines: "You Must Change Your Life: The Use of Apostrophe in Rilke's <i>New Poems</i>"
<li> Transcribe the poems and include them at the beginning of your paper if they fit on one page, after the title. Otherwise place the poems to the "Appendix" of your paper and cite line numbers from the Appendix.
<li> If you incorporate secondary sources beyond what has been convered in class, make sure they are reputable, scholarly sources. Consult me for advice on where to find them or what sources to choose.
<li> Use proper MLA formatting and citation style, 1.7 spacing, and a Works Cited page. If typing up meter, do it in a consistent style, following the guidelines from Essay 1.
<li> The paper should be relatively free of typographical, spelling, and grammar errors. Check for verb agreement, extra/missing spaces and indents, and proper placement of punctuation near quotes.
<li> The body of the paper should be 4-5 pages.
</ol>

### Grading criteria

A: Satisfies all of the above.  
A- Satisfies 1-5, some issues with items 6-15.  
B+: Some issues with items 1-5, satisfies everything else.  
B:  Some issues with 1-5, minor issues with 6-15.  
B-: Some issues with 1-5, various issues with 6-15.  
≤ C+: At the instructor's discretion

Submit your best work the first time around, even if that means turning in your paper slightly late (within 24 hours of the due date). The grade is assigned based on the last revision you are able to turn in before the revision deadline. You may want to use the [Knight Institute Writing Center](https://cornell.mywconline.net) for additional help.



### Learning Objectives

Like the previous essay, this prompt allows you to practice reading a poem using specific terms and methodologies inherited from another text. However, it also employs a comparative framework, meaning that you will have to present and discuss multiple ways of understanding a poem, its genre, or an applicable term.

</div>
