+++
title = "Essay 3"
description = ""
date = "2020-08-19"
menu = "main"
+++

<div class="essay">

# Essay 3 - "Studium, Punctum"

Due Friday, 11/29, at 22:00; revisions due by 12/1 at 22:00

### Prompt
In Camera Lucida, Roland Barthes seeks to describe how photographs generate desire in him as a viewer, and comes up with two key terms, *studium* and *punctum*. Read his definition below:

> What I feel about these photographs derives from an average affect, almost from a certain training. I did not know a French word which might account for this kind of human interest, but I believe this word exists in Latin: it is *studium,* which doesn’t mean, at least not immediately, “study,” but application to a thing, taste for someone, a kind of general, enthusiastic commitment, of course, but without special acuity. It is by *studium* that I am interested in so many photographs, whether I receive them as political testimony or enjoy them as good historical scenes: for it is culturally (this connotation is present in *studium*) that I participate in the figures, the faces, the gestures, the settings, the actions.

> The second element will break (or punctuate) the *studium*. This time it is not I who seek it out (as I invest the field of the *studium* with my sovereign consciousness), it is this element which rises from the scene, shoots out of it like an arrow, and pierces me. A Latin word exists to designate this wound, this prick, this mark made by a pointed instrument: the word suits me all the better in that it also refers to the notion of punctuation, and because the photographs I am speaking of are in effect punctuated, sometimes even speckled with these sensitive points; precisely, these marks, these wounds are so many points. This second element which will disturb the *studium* I shall therefore call *punctum*; for *punctum* is also: sting, speck, cut, little hole—and also a cast of the dice. A photograph’s *punctum* is that accident which pricks me (but also bruises me, is poignant to me). (25-27)

[Refer to sections 10-24 in *Camera Lucida* for more.]

Find a *punctum* in a poem of your choosing. It could be word, phrase, line, or sentence at a specific location in the poem. Then write about it. What is it about this punctum that “pricks” you? How does it stand out against the poem's *studium*? The *punctum* might be your favorite point in the poem, or it might be the most troubling or confusing. Your description may lead you to discuss other parts of the poem, but make sure to circle back to the *punctum* at the end of your essay.


### Further notes
* In order to describe the *punctum* you will need to discuss how it diverges from or is separate from the poem’s *studium*, or what might be called its “normative” language. Use your notes on the ritual and fictional elements of the poem, and/or on its lineation, meter, rhyme, conceits, and imagery as a guide for identifying such norms. Or, treat the poem like a photograph that corresponds to its place and time—do historical or biographical research on the poet or its subject matter, and try to describe exactly what was 'seen' or 'captured' through the poem.
* Keep in mind that it may take multiple readings and some time away from the poem in order to figure out what your *punctum* is. Reading the poem out loud is a necessity; it helps you slow down and notice things you wouldn’t otherwise. Transcribing by hand or keyboard is similarly helpful. Maybe you won't find a single punctum, or will find it impossible to describe the punctum, or localize it. That's fine—you could dedicate a large chunk of your essay to these difficulties.
* The analogy between photography and poetry is imperfect. Don't take everything Barthes says as some kind of universal truth. For instance, you may not worry too much about the "unintentionality" of the *punctum*, since most poets often exercise more agency over what appears in their poems than most photographers do with their photographs. The *punctum* of a poem may be intentionally willed by the poet, but still remain striking and beautiful.
* You can write this as a story or a poem, in which case you may wish to use a modified citation format with footnotes/endnotes.

### Specifications


<ol style="margin-left:3em">
<li> Begin with an immersive description of the 'world' of the poem. This may involve describing the poem itself, writing about what precedes your reading of the poem (personal knowledge or experience), or imagining the circumstances that led to its composition. This can take on the tone of a memoir, an academic study, or a story.
<li> Pivot at the end of the first paragraph or the beginning of the second paragraph to a discussion of Barthes' terms 'punctum' and 'studium.' You should certainly define them (using citations) and discuss their context (that they were used to discuss photography)
<li> The thesis statement should immediately follow the discussion of Barthes and provide a map of the essay, or a simple question. Since this is a short essay, it doesn't have to be very detailed. The main thing you are searching for is a way of locating or describing the 'punctum.'
<li> In the subsequent paragraph(s), go into greater depth in your description of the poem's studium. This is a good place to introduce historical background, or to associate the imagery or subject matter of the poem with something external: cross-disciplinary or personal associations. <b>Make sure you establish strong relationships between each paragraph. Are you presenting two antithetical ideas and then synthesizing them in the third? Progressively zooming in on one? Panning through three disjoint topics?</b> 
<li> The penultimate paragraph should transition to the punctum, which in all likelihood will be an outlier observation that doesn't exactly fit into the narrative created in the previous paragraphs.
<li> The concluding paragraph should reflect on whether or not that outlying idea really is the 'punctum'—did it help you understand why you are affected by the poem? Maybe it's not the real 'punctum,' or there are multiple. That's fine, just tell the reader.
<li> The paragraph-by-paragraph structure of this essay is probably going to be: intro-definition-thesis, studium, studium, studium, punctum, reflection. With that basic structure set, focus on creating an immersive experience for the reader by concentrating on the construction of your sentences.

   * Search for vivid, concrete adjectives and nouns; active, precise verbs.
   * Pay attention to variation in sentence length—punctuate long sentences with short ones, make sure long sentences are really necessary (usually they work best if they are lists, or use apposition instead of subordination).
<li> Make sure the paper is relatively free of typographical, grammatical, and spelling errors. Remember to put periods and commas inside quotation marks!
<li> Check with me to make sure external sources are reputable.
<li> Give the paper an apt, memorable title.
<li> Use proper MLA formatting and citation style, 1.7 spacing. The body of the paper should be around 3 pages. Submit to Canvas as a PDF.
<li> Transcribe the poem with line numbers and include at the beginning of your paper if it fits in one page, after the title. Otherwise attach the poem in the "Appendix" of your paper, prior to the Works Cited page.
<li> Submit a separate document in which you reflect on the experience of writing this. Compare it to your experience with the previous assignments. Which of the assignment felt most fulfilling to you and why? Are you getting a sense of which you might emulate or draw from in writing your final essay? Most importantly, what kind of feedback would you like to get on this paper? This should be about a page long.
</ol>

### Grading criteria

The grading scheme follows that of Essay 4. It's letter-based, based on my intuition as a reader than on your strict fulfillment of the above criteria. This is closer to how papers actually get graded in writing-based classes, so it's important to get used to, even if it seems less objective.

### Looking Ahead
Identifying a punctum can be a strong way of starting an essay and developing a focal question. Writing about the studium is a way of incorporating external research into this paper. The personal nature of the studium may also allow you to incorporate modes of writing that are more narrative or journalistic in nature. This essay will hopefully allow you to reflect on which theoretical methods you prefer to use, what poems you enjoy writing about, what challenges you are facing when doing external research, and how you relate to your subject matter.

</div>
