+++
title = "Assignment 0"
description = ""
date = "2020-08-19"
categories = [
    "assignment",
]
menu = "main"
+++

### Prompt
Consider the following passages from Octavio Paz’s essay “Poetry and Poem”:

> Poetry is knowledge, salvation, power, abandonment. An operation capable of changing the world, poetic activity is revolutionary by nature; a spiritual exercise, it is a means of interior liberation. Poetry reveals this world; it creates another. Bread of the chosen; accursed food. It isolates; it unites. Invitation to the journey; return to the homeland. Inspiration, respiration, muscular exercise. Prayer to the void, dialogue with absence: tedium, anguish, and despair nourish it. Prayer, litany, epiphany, presence. Exorcism, conjuration, magic. Sublimation, compensation, condensation of the unconscious. Historic expression of races, nations, classes. It denies history: at its core all objective conflicts are resolved and man at last acquires consciousness of being something more than a transient. Experience, feeling, emotion, intuition, undirected thought. Result of chance; fruit of calculation. Art of speaking in a superior way; primitive language. Obedience to rules; creation of others. Imitation of the ancients, copy of the real, copy of a copy of the Idea. Madness, ecstasy, logos. Return to childhood, coitus, nostalgia for paradise, for hell, for limbo. Play, work, ascetic activity. Confession. Innate experience. Vision, music, symbol. Analogy: the poem is a shell that echoes the music of the world, and meters and rhymes are merely correspondences, echoes, of the universal harmony. Teaching, morality, example, revelation, dance, dialogue, monologue. Voice of the people, language of the chosen, word of the solitary. Pure and impure, sacred and damned, popular and of the minority, collective and personal, naked and clothed, spoken, painted, written, it shows every face but there are those who say that it has no face: the poem is a mask that hides the void—a beautiful proof of the superfluous grandeur of every human work!

> When we question the poem about the existence of poetry, are we not arbitrarily confusing poetry and poem? Aristotle said that “there is nothing in common, except metrics, between Homer and Empedocles; and thus the former is rightly called a poet and the latter a physiologist.” And so it is: not every poem—or to be exact: not every work constructed according to the laws of meter—contains poetry. But are those metrical works real poems or artistic, didactic, or rhetorical artifacts? A sonnet is not a poem, but a literary form, except when that rhetorical mechanism—stanzas, meters, and rhymes—has been touched by poetry. There are machines for rhyming but not for poetizing. There is also poetry without poems; landscapes, persons, and events are often poetic: they are poetry without being poems. Now, when poetry is given as a condensation of chance or when it is a crystallization of powers and circumstances alien to the poet’s creative will, we are in the presence of the poetic. When—active or passive, awake or sleeping—the poet is the wire that conducts and transforms the poetic current, we face something radically different: a work. A poem is a work. Poetry is polarized, assembled, and isolated in a human product: painting, song, tragedy. The poetic is poetry in an amorphous state; the poem is creation, poetry standing erect. Poetry is isolated and revealed completely only in the poem. It is licit to question the poem about the existence of poetry if one ceases to conceive the poem as a form capable of being filled with any content. The poem is not a literary form but the meeting place between poetry and man. A poem is a verbal organism that contains, stimulates, or emits poetry. The form and the substance are the same.”

[The full essay is on Canvas for your reference, under Week 0]

### Task
Let’s say that you get a chance to write an email to an alien who has never been to Earth. The alien has been assiduously studying English by reading the internet and digitized books, but doesn’t have experience with our world, has never been in dialogue with a human. The alien is thus having trouble understanding the word “poetic,” which is used to describe an extremely wide variety of phenomena with some sort of superlative attitude. Choose a personally meaningful work of art or experience and write about how it represents, for you, the “poetic.”

### Further instructions
Be sure to distinguish between the terms “poem,” “poetry,” and “poetic” in relation to the object. You may quote Paz in your essay to help clarify what you mean by these terms, but you should also feel free to make modifications on his ideas or provide your own definitions for these terms. Since you are describing this object to an alien, be sure to describe its basic characteristics: what it is made of, how it works, what its general purpose is, how you relate to it. Limit the scope of your description for this ~1000 word message by pointing out just a few specific traits of the object to substantiate your definition of the “poetic.” You may want to create a list of poetic traits for the alien, and then provide a detailed analysis of just one of these traits’ relationship to poetry.

### Looking Ahead
We are going to be focusing on poems for much of this course, with the assumption that poems are a specifically linguistic form of poetry. This assignment gives you an opportunity to think about what poetry means for you outside of the linguistic sphere, and even outside of traditionally conceived “aesthetic experience.” Reflecting on what the poetic means to you will help guide you in future decisions in this course and beyond, in terms of what you choose to write about or study. This essay also invokes the same skills necessary for close engagement with poems in a scholarly/analytical context—close attention to detail, and the intent to clearly define and apply certain terms, often in conversation with another writer’s discussion of the same or related terminologies. It therefore provides an initial record of your aptitude for essay-writing.
